modules/ROOT/pages/errors/all-errors.adoc, before:

:description: The legacy error codes for Neo4j 5.


[[neo4j-errors]]
= List of legacy server error codes

This page lists the legacy server error codes, also known as Neo4j status codes.
These will be replaced by xref:errors/gql-errors.adoc[GQLSTATUS server error codes].

Error codes are returned by the server when the execution of a query fails.
They always have the severity level `ERROR`.
Errors are grouped based on the type of the Neo4j status code:

Client errors::
These errors are caused by the client and are usually related to the request itself.
The Neo4j status codes for client errors have the prefix `Neo.ClientError`.

Transient errors::
These errors are detected by the server and are usually related to some kind of database unavailability, such as limits reached, out-of-memory, timeouts, etc.
The error can be temporary, and the request could succeed if retried.
The Neo4j status codes for transient errors have the prefix Neo.`TransientError`.

Database errors::
These errors are caused by the database and are usually related to the database state.
The Neo4j status codes for database errors have the prefix `Neo.DatabaseError`.

This page contains lists of all Neo4j errors, grouped by type.

== Client errors

This is a complete list of all client errors Neo4j may return, and what they mean.

[options="header", cols="<1m,<1"]
|===

| Neo4j legacy code
| Description

| Neo.ClientError.ChangeDataCapture.InvalidIdentifier
| Invalid change identifier.

| Neo.ClientError.Cluster.NotALeader
| The request cannot be processed by this server. Write requests can only be processed by the leader.

| Neo.ClientError.Cluster.Routing
| Unable to route the request to the appropriate server

| Neo.ClientError.Database.DatabaseNotFound
| The request referred to a database that does not exist.

| Neo.ClientError.Database.ExistingAliasFound
| The request referred to a database with an alias.

| Neo.ClientError.Database.ExistingDatabaseFound
| The request referred to a database that already exists.

| Neo.ClientError.Database.IllegalAliasChain
|
An illegal chain of aliases has been detected.
This request cannot be executed.

| Neo.ClientError.Fabric.AccessMode
| The request could not be completed due to an access mode violation

| Neo.ClientError.General.ForbiddenOnReadOnlyDatabase
| This is a read-only database, writing or modifying the database is not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.General.InvalidArguments
| The request contained fields that were empty or are not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.General.TransactionOutOfMemoryError
|
The transaction used more memory than was allowed.
The maximum allowed size for a transaction can be configured with `db.memory.transaction.max_size` in the Neo4j configuration file (normally in _conf/neo4j.conf_ or, if you are using Neo4j Desktop, found through the user interface).

| Neo.ClientError.General.UpgradeRequired
|
This transaction required the database to be of a higher kernel version than it is.
Make sure that the Neoj4 DBMS has been correctly upgraded before retrying this operation.

| Neo.ClientError.General.WriteOnReadOnlyAccessDatabase
|
This database is in read-only mode, writing or modifying the database is not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.ProcedureCallFailed
|
Failed to invoke a procedure.
See the detailed error description for the exact cause.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.ProcedureNotFound
|
A request referred to a procedure that is not registered with this database instance.
If you are deploying custom procedures in a cluster setup, ensure all instances in the cluster have the procedure jar file deployed.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.ProcedureRegistrationFailed
| The database failed to register a procedure, refer to the associated error message for details.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.ProcedureTimedOut
|
The procedure did not complete within the specified timeout.
You may want to retry with a longer timeout.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.TypeError
| A procedure is using or receiving a value of an invalid type.

| Neo.ClientError.Request.Invalid
| The client provided an invalid request.

| Neo.ClientError.Request.InvalidFormat
| The client provided a request that was missing required fields or had values that are not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.Request.InvalidUsage
| The client made a request but did not consume outgoing buffers in a timely fashion.

| Neo.ClientError.Routing.DbmsInPanic
| Server is in panic.

| Neo.ClientError.Routing.RoutingFailed
| Failed to route.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because it will clash with a pre-existing constraint.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintNotFound
| The request (directly or indirectly) referred to a constraint that does not exist.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintValidationFailed
| A constraint imposed by the database was violated.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintViolation
| Added or changed index entry violates a constraint.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintWithNameAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because a constraint with that name already exists.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.EquivalentSchemaRuleAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because an equivalent schema rule already exists.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ForbiddenOnConstraintIndex
|
A requested operation cannot be performed on the specified index because the index is part of a constraint.
If you want to drop the index, you must also drop the constraint.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because it will clash with a pre-existing index.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexMultipleFound
| The request referenced an index by its schema and multiple matching indexes were found.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexNotApplicable
| The request did not contain the properties required by the index.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexNotFound
| The request (directly or indirectly) referred to an index that does not exist.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexWithNameAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because an index with that name already exists.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.RepeatedLabelInSchema
| Unable to create an index or a constraint because the schema had a repeated label.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.RepeatedPropertyInCompositeSchema
| Unable to create an index or a constraint because the schema had a repeated property.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.RepeatedRelationshipTypeInSchema
| Unable to create an index or a constraint because the schema had a repeated relationship type.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.TokenNameError
|
An invalid name is used for a token (label, relationship type, property key).
Tokens cannot be empty strings and cannot be null.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.AuthenticationRateLimit
| The client has provided incorrect authentication details too many times in a row.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.AuthorizationExpired
|
The stored authorization info has expired.
Please reconnect.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.CredentialsExpired
| The credentials have expired and need to be updated.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.Forbidden
| An attempt was made to perform an unauthorized action.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.TokenExpired
| The auth provider token has expired.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.Unauthorized
| The client is unauthorized due to authentication failure.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.AccessMode
| The request could not be completed due to an access mode violation.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ArgumentError
| The statement is attempting to perform operations using invalid arguments.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ArithmeticError
| Invalid use of arithmetic, such as dividing by zero.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ConstraintVerificationFailed
| A constraint imposed by the statement is violated by the data in the database.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.EntityNotFound
| The statement refers to a non-existent entity.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ExternalResourceFailed
| Access to an external resource failed.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.NotSystemDatabaseError
| This is an administration command and it should be executed against the `system` database.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ParameterMissing
| The statement refers to a parameter that was not provided in the request.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.PropertyNotFound
| The statement refers to a non-existent property.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.RemoteExecutionClientError
| The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement due to a client error.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.RuntimeUnsupportedError
| This query is not supported by the chosen runtime.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.SemanticError
| The statement is syntactically valid but expresses something that the database cannot do.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.SyntaxError
| The statement contains invalid or unsupported syntax.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.TypeError
| The statement is attempting to perform operations on values with types that are not supported by the operation.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.UnsupportedAdministrationCommand
| This administration command is not supported.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.UnsupportedOperationError
| This query performed an operation that is not supported in this context.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.ForbiddenDueToTransactionType
|
The transaction is of the wrong type to service the request.
For instance, a transaction that has had schema modifications performed in it cannot be used to subsequently perform data operations, and vice versa.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.InvalidBookmark
|
The supplied bookmark cannot be interpreted.
You should only supply a bookmark that was previously generated by Neo4j.
Maybe you have generated your own bookmark, or modified a bookmark since it was generated by Neo4j.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.InvalidBookmarkMixture
|
Mixing bookmarks generated by different databases is forbidden.
You should only chain bookmarks that are generated from the same database.
You may however chain bookmarks generated from the `system` database with bookmarks from another database.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.LockClientStopped
| The transaction has been terminated, so no more locks can be acquired.
This may occur because the transaction ran longer than the configured transaction timeout, a human operator manually terminated the transaction, or the database shut down.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.Terminated
| Explicitly terminated by the user.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionAccessedConcurrently
| There were concurrent requests accessing the same transaction, which is not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionHookFailed
| Transaction hook failure.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionMarkedAsFailed
|
The transaction was marked as both successful and failed.
Because failure takes precedence, the transaction was rolled back.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionNotFound
| The request referred to a transaction that does not exist.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionTimedOut
|
The transaction has not completed within the specified timeout (`db.transaction.timeout`).
You may want to retry with a longer timeout.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionTimedOutClientConfiguration
|
The transaction has not completed within the timeout specified at its start by the client.
You may want to retry with a longer timeout.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionValidationFailed
| Transaction changes did not pass validation checks.


|===

== Transient errors

This is a complete list of all transient errors Neo4j may return, and what they mean.

[options="header", cols="<1m,<1"]
|===

| Neo4j legacy code
| Description

| Neo.TransientError.ChangeDataCapture.FutureIdentifier
| Change identifier points to a future transaction that has not yet happened on this database instance.

| Neo.TransientError.Cluster.ReplicationFailure
| Replication failure.

| Neo.TransientError.General.DatabaseUnavailable
|
The database is not currently available to serve your request, refer to the database logs for more details.
Retrying your request at a later time may succeed.

| Neo.TransientError.General.MemoryPoolOutOfMemoryError
|
The memory pool limit was exceeded.
The corresponding setting can be found in the error message.

| Neo.TransientError.General.OutOfMemoryError
|
There is not enough memory to perform the current task.
Please try increasing `server.memory.heap.max_size` in the Neo4j configuration file (normally in _conf/neo4j.conf_ or, if you are using Neo4j Desktop, found through the user interface).

If you are running an embedded installation, you can increase the heap by using the `-Xmx` command line flag, and then restart the database.

| Neo.TransientError.General.StackOverFlowError
|
There is not enough stack size to perform the current task.
This is generally considered to be a database error, so please contact Neo4j support.

You could try increasing the stack size; for example to set the stack size to `2M`, add `server.jvm.additional=-Xss2M` to in the Neo4j configuration file (normally in _conf/neo4j.conf_ or, if you are using Neo4j Desktop, found through the user interface).

 If you are running an embedded installation, you can add `-Xss2M` as command line flag.

| Neo.TransientError.General.TransactionMemoryLimit
|
There is not enough memory to perform the current task.
Please try increasing `server.memory.off_heap.transaction_max_size` in the Neo4j configuration file (normally in _conf/neo4j.conf_ or, if you are using Neo4j Desktop, found through the user interface), and then restart the database.

| Neo.TransientError.Request.NoThreadsAvailable
|
There are no available threads to serve this request at the moment.
You can retry at a later time, or consider increasing max thread pool size for bolt connector(s).

| Neo.TransientError.Security.AuthProviderFailed
| An auth provider request failed.

| Neo.TransientError.Security.AuthProviderTimeout
| An auth provider request timed out.

| Neo.TransientError.Security.ModifiedConcurrently
| The user was modified concurrently to this request.

| Neo.TransientError.Statement.ExecutionTimeout
| The database was unable to execute the statement in a timely fashion.

| Neo.TransientError.Statement.RemoteExecutionTransientError
| The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement due to a transient failure.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.BookmarkTimeout
|
Bookmark wait timed out.
Database has not reached the specified version.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.ConstraintsChanged
| Database constraints changed since the start of this transaction.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.DeadlockDetected
|
This transaction, and at least one more transaction, has acquired locks in a way that it will wait indefinitely, and the database has aborted it.
Retrying this transaction will most likely be successful.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.Interrupted
| Interrupted while waiting.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.LeaderSwitch
| The request could not be completed due to cluster leader switch.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.LeaseExpired
| The lease under which this transaction was started is no longer valid.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.LockAcquisitionTimeout
| Unable to acquire lock within configured timeout (`db.lock.acquisition.timeout`).

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.MaximumTransactionLimitReached
|
Unable to start new transaction since the maximum number of concurrently executing transactions is reached (`db.transaction.concurrent.maximum`).
You can retry at a later time or consider increasing allowed maximum of concurrent transactions.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.Outdated
|
Transaction has seen state which has been invalidated by applied updates while the transaction was active.
Transaction may succeed if retried.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.QueryExecutionFailedOnTransaction
| The transaction was marked as failed because a query failed.

|===

== Database error

This is a complete list of all database errors Neo4j may return, and what they mean.

[options="header", cols="<1m,<1"]
|===

| Neo4j legacy code
| Description

| Neo.DatabaseError.ChangeDataCapture.Disabled
| Change Data Capture is not currently enabled for this database.

| Neo.DatabaseError.ChangeDataCapture.ScanFailure
| Unable to read the Change Data Capture data for this database.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Database.DatabaseLimitReached
| The limit to number of databases has been reached.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Database.UnableToStartDatabase
| Unable to start database.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Database.Unknown
| Unknown database management error.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Fabric.RemoteExecutionFailed
| The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement.

| Neo.DatabaseError.General.IndexCorruptionDetected
|
The request (directly or indirectly) referred to an index that is in a failed state.
The index needs to be dropped and recreated manually.

| Neo.DatabaseError.General.SchemaCorruptionDetected
|
A malformed schema rule was encountered.
Please contact your support representative.

| Neo.DatabaseError.General.StorageDamageDetected
|
Expected set of files not found on disk.
Please restore from backup.

| Neo.DatabaseError.General.UnknownError
| An unknown error occurred.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.ConstraintCreationFailed
| Creating a requested constraint failed.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.ConstraintDropFailed
| The database failed to drop a requested constraint.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.IndexCreationFailed
| Failed to create an index.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.IndexDropFailed
| The database failed to drop a requested index.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.LabelAccessFailed
| The request accessed a label that did not exist.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.PropertyKeyAccessFailed
| The request accessed a property that does not exist.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.RelationshipTypeAccessFailed
| The request accessed a relationship type that does not exist.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.SchemaRuleAccessFailed
| The request referred to a schema rule that does not exist.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.SchemaRuleDuplicateFound
| The request referred to a schema rule that is defined multiple times.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.TokenLimitReached
| The maximum number of tokens of this type has been reached, no more tokens of this type can be created.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Statement.ExecutionFailed
| The database was unable to execute the statement.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Statement.RemoteExecutionFailed
| The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.LinkedTransactionError
| The transaction was terminated because another transaction executing the same query encountered an error.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionCommitFailed
| The database was unable to commit the transaction.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionLogError
| The database was unable to write transaction to log.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionRollbackFailed
| The database was unable to roll back the transaction.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionStartFailed
| The database was unable to start the transaction.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionTerminationFailed
| The database was unable to terminate the transaction.

|===

Commit message:

remove legacy and further updates

modules/ROOT/pages/errors/all-errors.adoc, after:

:description: The error codes for Neo4j 5.


[[neo4j-errors]]
= List of Neo4j codes

This page lists the current Neo4j error codes, which will be replaced by xref:errors/gql-errors.adoc[GQLSTATUS error codes] in the future.

Error codes are returned by the server when the execution of a query fails.
They always have the severity level `ERROR`.
Errors are grouped based on the type of the Neo4j status code:

Client errors::
These errors are caused by the client (user input or user application) and are usually related to the request itself.
The Neo4j codes for client errors have the prefix `Neo.ClientError`.

Transient errors::
These errors are detected by the server and are usually related to some kind of database unavailability, such as limits reached, out-of-memory, timeouts, etc.
The error can be temporary, and the request could succeed if retried.
The Neo4j status codes for transient errors have the prefix Neo.`TransientError`.

Database errors::
These errors are caused by the database and are usually related to the database state.
The Neo4j status codes for database errors have the prefix `Neo.DatabaseError`.

This page contains lists of all Neo4j errors, grouped by type.

== Client errors

This is a complete list of all client errors Neo4j may return, and what they mean.

[options="header", cols="<1m,<1"]
|===

| Neo4j  code
| Description

| Neo.ClientError.ChangeDataCapture.InvalidIdentifier
| Invalid change identifier.

| Neo.ClientError.Cluster.NotALeader
| The request cannot be processed by this server. Write requests can only be processed by the leader.

| Neo.ClientError.Cluster.Routing
| Unable to route the request to the appropriate server

| Neo.ClientError.Database.DatabaseNotFound
| The request referred to a database that does not exist.

| Neo.ClientError.Database.ExistingAliasFound
| The request referred to a database with an alias.

| Neo.ClientError.Database.ExistingDatabaseFound
| The request referred to a database that already exists.

| Neo.ClientError.Database.IllegalAliasChain
|
An illegal chain of aliases has been detected.
This request cannot be executed.

| Neo.ClientError.Fabric.AccessMode
| The request could not be completed due to an access mode violation

| Neo.ClientError.General.ForbiddenOnReadOnlyDatabase
| This is a read-only database, writing or modifying the database is not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.General.InvalidArguments
| The request contained fields that were empty or are not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.General.TransactionOutOfMemoryError
|
The transaction used more memory than was allowed.
The maximum allowed size for a transaction can be configured with `db.memory.transaction.max_size` in the Neo4j configuration file (normally in _conf/neo4j.conf_ or, if you are using Neo4j Desktop, found through the user interface).

| Neo.ClientError.General.UpgradeRequired
|
This transaction required the database to be of a higher kernel version than it is.
Make sure that the Neoj4 DBMS has been correctly upgraded before retrying this operation.

| Neo.ClientError.General.WriteOnReadOnlyAccessDatabase
|
This database is in read-only mode, writing or modifying the database is not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.ProcedureCallFailed
|
Failed to invoke a procedure.
See the detailed error description for the exact cause.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.ProcedureNotFound
|
A request referred to a procedure that is not registered with this database instance.
If you are deploying custom procedures in a cluster setup, ensure all instances in the cluster have the procedure jar file deployed.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.ProcedureRegistrationFailed
| The database failed to register a procedure, refer to the associated error message for details.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.ProcedureTimedOut
|
The procedure did not complete within the specified timeout.
You may want to retry with a longer timeout.

| Neo.ClientError.Procedure.TypeError
| A procedure is using or receiving a value of an invalid type.

| Neo.ClientError.Request.Invalid
| The client provided an invalid request.

| Neo.ClientError.Request.InvalidFormat
| The client provided a request that was missing required fields or had values that are not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.Request.InvalidUsage
| The client made a request but did not consume outgoing buffers in a timely fashion.

| Neo.ClientError.Routing.DbmsInPanic
| Server is in panic.

| Neo.ClientError.Routing.RoutingFailed
| Failed to route.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because it will clash with a pre-existing constraint.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintNotFound
| The request (directly or indirectly) referred to a constraint that does not exist.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintValidationFailed
| A constraint imposed by the database was violated.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintViolation
| Added or changed index entry violates a constraint.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ConstraintWithNameAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because a constraint with that name already exists.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.EquivalentSchemaRuleAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because an equivalent schema rule already exists.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.ForbiddenOnConstraintIndex
|
A requested operation cannot be performed on the specified index because the index is part of a constraint.
If you want to drop the index, you must also drop the constraint.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because it will clash with a pre-existing index.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexMultipleFound
| The request referenced an index by its schema and multiple matching indexes were found.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexNotApplicable
| The request did not contain the properties required by the index.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexNotFound
| The request (directly or indirectly) referred to an index that does not exist.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.IndexWithNameAlreadyExists
| Unable to perform this operation because an index with that name already exists.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.RepeatedLabelInSchema
| Unable to create an index or a constraint because the schema had a repeated label.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.RepeatedPropertyInCompositeSchema
| Unable to create an index or a constraint because the schema had a repeated property.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.RepeatedRelationshipTypeInSchema
| Unable to create an index or a constraint because the schema had a repeated relationship type.

| Neo.ClientError.Schema.TokenNameError
|
An invalid name is used for a token (label, relationship type, property key).
Tokens cannot be empty strings and cannot be null.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.AuthenticationRateLimit
| The client has provided incorrect authentication details too many times in a row.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.AuthorizationExpired
|
The stored authorization info has expired.
Please reconnect.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.CredentialsExpired
| The credentials have expired and need to be updated.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.Forbidden
| An attempt was made to perform an unauthorized action.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.TokenExpired
| The auth provider token has expired.

| Neo.ClientError.Security.Unauthorized
| The client is unauthorized due to authentication failure.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.AccessMode
| The request could not be completed due to an access mode violation.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ArgumentError
| The statement is attempting to perform operations using invalid arguments.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ArithmeticError
| Invalid use of arithmetic, such as dividing by zero.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ConstraintVerificationFailed
| A constraint imposed by the statement is violated by the data in the database.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.EntityNotFound
| The statement refers to a non-existent entity.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ExternalResourceFailed
| Access to an external resource failed.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.NotSystemDatabaseError
| This is an administration command and it should be executed against the `system` database.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.ParameterMissing
| The statement refers to a parameter that was not provided in the request.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.PropertyNotFound
| The statement refers to a non-existent property.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.RemoteExecutionClientError
| The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement due to a client error.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.RuntimeUnsupportedError
| This query is not supported by the chosen runtime.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.SemanticError
| The statement is syntactically valid but expresses something that the database cannot do.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.SyntaxError
| The statement contains invalid or unsupported syntax.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.TypeError
| The statement is attempting to perform operations on values with types that are not supported by the operation.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.UnsupportedAdministrationCommand
| This administration command is not supported.

| Neo.ClientError.Statement.UnsupportedOperationError
| This query performed an operation that is not supported in this context.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.ForbiddenDueToTransactionType
|
The transaction is of the wrong type to service the request.
For instance, a transaction that has had schema modifications performed in it cannot be used to subsequently perform data operations, and vice versa.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.InvalidBookmark
|
The supplied bookmark cannot be interpreted.
You should only supply a bookmark that was previously generated by Neo4j.
Maybe you have generated your own bookmark, or modified a bookmark since it was generated by Neo4j.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.InvalidBookmarkMixture
|
Mixing bookmarks generated by different databases is forbidden.
You should only chain bookmarks that are generated from the same database.
You may however chain bookmarks generated from the `system` database with bookmarks from another database.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.LockClientStopped
| The transaction has been terminated, so no more locks can be acquired.
This may occur because the transaction ran longer than the configured transaction timeout, a human operator manually terminated the transaction, or the database shut down.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.Terminated
| Explicitly terminated by the user.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionAccessedConcurrently
| There were concurrent requests accessing the same transaction, which is not allowed.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionHookFailed
| Transaction hook failure.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionMarkedAsFailed
|
The transaction was marked as both successful and failed.
Because failure takes precedence, the transaction was rolled back.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionNotFound
| The request referred to a transaction that does not exist.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionTimedOut
|
The transaction has not completed within the specified timeout (`db.transaction.timeout`).
You may want to retry with a longer timeout.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionTimedOutClientConfiguration
|
The transaction has not completed within the timeout specified at its start by the client.
You may want to retry with a longer timeout.

| Neo.ClientError.Transaction.TransactionValidationFailed
| Transaction changes did not pass validation checks.


|===

== Transient errors

This is a complete list of all transient errors Neo4j may return, and what they mean.

[options="header", cols="<1m,<1"]
|===

| Neo4j  code
| Description

| Neo.TransientError.ChangeDataCapture.FutureIdentifier
| Change identifier points to a future transaction that has not yet happened on this database instance.

| Neo.TransientError.Cluster.ReplicationFailure
| Replication failure.

| Neo.TransientError.General.DatabaseUnavailable
|
The database is not currently available to serve your request, refer to the database logs for more details.
Retrying your request at a later time may succeed.

| Neo.TransientError.General.MemoryPoolOutOfMemoryError
|
The memory pool limit was exceeded.
The corresponding setting can be found in the error message.

| Neo.TransientError.General.OutOfMemoryError
|
There is not enough memory to perform the current task.
Please try increasing `server.memory.heap.max_size` in the Neo4j configuration file (normally in _conf/neo4j.conf_ or, if you are using Neo4j Desktop, found through the user interface).

If you are running an embedded installation, you can increase the heap by using the `-Xmx` command line flag, and then restart the database.

| Neo.TransientError.General.StackOverFlowError
|
There is not enough stack size to perform the current task.
This is generally considered to be a database error, so please contact Neo4j support.

You could try increasing the stack size; for example to set the stack size to `2M`, add `server.jvm.additional=-Xss2M` to in the Neo4j configuration file (normally in _conf/neo4j.conf_ or, if you are using Neo4j Desktop, found through the user interface).

 If you are running an embedded installation, you can add `-Xss2M` as command line flag.

| Neo.TransientError.General.TransactionMemoryLimit
|
There is not enough memory to perform the current task.
Please try increasing `server.memory.off_heap.transaction_max_size` in the Neo4j configuration file (normally in _conf/neo4j.conf_ or, if you are using Neo4j Desktop, found through the user interface), and then restart the database.

| Neo.TransientError.Request.NoThreadsAvailable
|
There are no available threads to serve this request at the moment.
You can retry at a later time, or consider increasing max thread pool size for bolt connector(s).

| Neo.TransientError.Security.AuthProviderFailed
| An auth provider request failed.

| Neo.TransientError.Security.AuthProviderTimeout
| An auth provider request timed out.

| Neo.TransientError.Security.ModifiedConcurrently
| The user was modified concurrently to this request.

| Neo.TransientError.Statement.ExecutionTimeout
| The database was unable to execute the statement in a timely fashion.

| Neo.TransientError.Statement.RemoteExecutionTransientError
| The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement due to a transient failure.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.BookmarkTimeout
|
Bookmark wait timed out.
Database has not reached the specified version.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.ConstraintsChanged
| Database constraints changed since the start of this transaction.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.DeadlockDetected
|
This transaction, and at least one more transaction, has acquired locks in a way that it will wait indefinitely, and the database has aborted it.
Retrying this transaction will most likely be successful.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.Interrupted
| Interrupted while waiting.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.LeaderSwitch
| The request could not be completed due to cluster leader switch.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.LeaseExpired
| The lease under which this transaction was started is no longer valid.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.LockAcquisitionTimeout
| Unable to acquire lock within configured timeout (`db.lock.acquisition.timeout`).

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.MaximumTransactionLimitReached
|
Unable to start new transaction since the maximum number of concurrently executing transactions is reached (`db.transaction.concurrent.maximum`).
You can retry at a later time or consider increasing allowed maximum of concurrent transactions.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.Outdated
|
Transaction has seen state which has been invalidated by applied updates while the transaction was active.
Transaction may succeed if retried.

| Neo.TransientError.Transaction.QueryExecutionFailedOnTransaction
| The transaction was marked as failed because a query failed.

|===

== Database error

This is a complete list of all database errors Neo4j may return, and what they mean.

[options="header", cols="<1m,<1"]
|===

| Neo4j  code
| Description

| Neo.DatabaseError.ChangeDataCapture.Disabled
| Change Data Capture is not currently enabled for this database.

| Neo.DatabaseError.ChangeDataCapture.ScanFailure
| Unable to read the Change Data Capture data for this database.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Database.DatabaseLimitReached
| The limit to number of databases has been reached.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Database.UnableToStartDatabase
| Unable to start database.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Database.Unknown
| Unknown database management error.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Fabric.RemoteExecutionFailed
| The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement.

| Neo.DatabaseError.General.IndexCorruptionDetected
|
The request (directly or indirectly) referred to an index that is in a failed state.
The index needs to be dropped and recreated manually.

| Neo.DatabaseError.General.SchemaCorruptionDetected
|
A malformed schema rule was encountered.
Please contact your support representative.

| Neo.DatabaseError.General.StorageDamageDetected
|
Expected set of files not found on disk.
Please restore from backup.

| Neo.DatabaseError.General.UnknownError
| An unknown error occurred.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.ConstraintCreationFailed
| Creating a requested constraint failed.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.ConstraintDropFailed
| The database failed to drop a requested constraint.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.IndexCreationFailed
| Failed to create an index.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.IndexDropFailed
| The database failed to drop a requested index.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.LabelAccessFailed
| The request accessed a label that did not exist.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.PropertyKeyAccessFailed
| The request accessed a property that does not exist.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.RelationshipTypeAccessFailed
| The request accessed a relationship type that does not exist.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.SchemaRuleAccessFailed
| The request referred to a schema rule that does not exist.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.SchemaRuleDuplicateFound
| The request referred to a schema rule that is defined multiple times.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Schema.TokenLimitReached
| The maximum number of tokens of this type has been reached, no more tokens of this type can be created.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Statement.ExecutionFailed
| The database was unable to execute the statement.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Statement.RemoteExecutionFailed
| The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.LinkedTransactionError
| The transaction was terminated because another transaction executing the same query encountered an error.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionCommitFailed
| The database was unable to commit the transaction.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionLogError
| The database was unable to write transaction to log.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionRollbackFailed
| The database was unable to roll back the transaction.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionStartFailed
| The database was unable to start the transaction.

| Neo.DatabaseError.Transaction.TransactionTerminationFailed
| The database was unable to terminate the transaction.

|===
