modules/ROOT/pages/errors/gql-errors/22ND3.adoc, before:

= 22ND3

== Status description
error: data exception - wrong property for vector search filtering. The property `{ <<propKey>> }` is not an additional property of the vector index `{ <<idx>> }`.

== Example scenario
For example, assuming that you have a vector index created by the following command:

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
FOR (m:Movie) ON m.embedding
WITH [m.rating]
----

When using a property key other than `rating` in a vector search filter:

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR [1, 2, 3]
    WHERE movie.votes > 1000
    LIMIT 5
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

You will receive an error with GQLSTATUS 22ND3 and status description:

[source]
----
error: data exception - wrong property for vector search filtering. The property `votes` is not an additional property of the vector index 'moviePlots'.
----

== Possible solution

If you want to use the property `votes` for vector search filtering, it must be added as an additional property to the vector index.
For example:

. Drop the index you want to add the property to:
+
[source,cypher]
----
DROP INDEX moviePlots
----

. Recreate the index by adding the new property to the index:
+
[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
FOR (m:Movie) ON m.embedding
WITH [m.rating, m.votes]
----

ifndef::backend-pdf[]
[discrete.glossary]
== Glossary

include::partial$glossary.adoc[]
endif::[]

Commit message:

Align terminology with Cypher manual

modules/ROOT/pages/errors/gql-errors/22ND3.adoc, after:

= 22ND3

== Status description
error: data exception - wrong property for vector search with filters. The property `{ <<propKey>> }` is not an additional property of the vector index `{ <<idx>> }` for vector search with filters.

== Example scenario
For example, assuming that you have a vector index created by the following command:

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
FOR (m:Movie) ON m.embedding
WITH [m.rating]
----

When using a property key other than `rating` in the `WHERE` clause property predicate in a `SEARCH` clause:

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR [1, 2, 3]
    WHERE movie.votes > 1000
    LIMIT 5
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title
----

You will receive an error with GQLSTATUS 22ND3 and status description:

[source]
----
error: data exception - wrong property for vector search with filters. The property `votes` is not an additional property of the vector index 'moviePlots' for vector search with filters.
----

== Possible solution

If you want to use the property `votes` for vector search with filters, it must be added as an additional property to the vector index.
For example:

. Drop the index you want to add the property to:
+
[source,cypher]
----
DROP INDEX moviePlots
----

. Recreate the index by adding the new property to the index:
+
[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
FOR (m:Movie) ON m.embedding
WITH [m.rating, m.votes]
----

ifndef::backend-pdf[]
[discrete.glossary]
== Glossary

include::partial$glossary.adoc[]
endif::[]
