modules/ROOT/pages/errors/gql-errors/42I74.adoc, before:

= 42I74

== Status description
error: syntax error or access rule violation - wrong variable for vector search filtering. The variable `{ <<variable>>1 }` in a vector search filter property predicate must be the same as the search clause binding variable `{ <<variable>>2 }`.

== Example scenario
For example, assuming that you have a vector index created by the following command:

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
FOR (m:Movie) ON m.embedding
WITH [m.rating]
----

When trying to use a variable other than `movie` in the vector search filter in the following query:

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
MATCH (m:Movie {title:'Matrix, The'})
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR m.embedding
    WHERE m.rating >= 8
    LIMIT 5
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.rating AS rating
----

You will receive an error with GQLSTATUS xref:errors/gql-errors/42001.adoc[42001] with a cause with GQLSTATUS 42I74 and status description:

[source]
----
error: syntax error or access rule violation - wrong variable for vector search filtering. The variable `m` in a vector search filter property predicate must be the same as the search clause binding variable `movie`.
----

ifndef::backend-pdf[]
[discrete.glossary]
== Glossary

include::partial$glossary.adoc[]
endif::[]

Commit message:

Align terminology with Cypher manual

modules/ROOT/pages/errors/gql-errors/42I74.adoc, after:

= 42I74

== Status description
error: syntax error or access rule violation - wrong variable for vector search with filters. The variable `{ <<variable>>1 }` in a vector search filter property predicate must be the same as the search clause binding variable `{ <<variable>>2 }`.

== Example scenario
For example, assuming that you have a vector index created by the following command:

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
CREATE VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
FOR (m:Movie) ON m.embedding
WITH [m.rating]
----

When trying to use a variable other than `movie` inside the `WHERE` subclause predicate in a `SEARCH` clause in the following query:

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25
MATCH (m:Movie {title:'Matrix, The'})
MATCH (movie:Movie)
  SEARCH movie IN (
    VECTOR INDEX moviePlots
    FOR m.embedding
    WHERE m.rating >= 8
    LIMIT 5
  )
RETURN movie.title AS title, movie.rating AS rating
----

You will receive an error with GQLSTATUS xref:errors/gql-errors/42001.adoc[42001] with a cause with GQLSTATUS 42I74 and status description:

[source]
----
error: syntax error or access rule violation - wrong variable for vector search with filters. The variable `m` in a vector search filter property predicate must be the same as the search clause binding variable `movie`.
----

ifndef::backend-pdf[]
[discrete.glossary]
== Glossary

include::partial$glossary.adoc[]
endif::[]
