modules/ROOT/pages/errors/gql-errors/42NAA.adoc, before:

= 42NAA

== Status description
error: syntax error or access rule violation - incorrectly formatted graph reference. Incorrectly formatted graph reference `{ <<input>> }`. Expected a single quoted or unquoted identifier. Separate name parts should not be quoted individually.

== Explanation
As of Cypher 25, database names and aliases cannot include name parts that are quoted individually.
Either the whole name must be quoted, or the whole name must be unquoted.

== Example scenario
For example, try to create a database with :

[source,cypher]
----
CREATE DATABASE `foo`.`bar`
----

An error will be thrown with GQLSTATUS 42NAA and the status description:

[source]
----
error: syntax error or access rule violation - incorrectly formatted graph reference. Incorrectly formatted graph reference '`foo`.`bar`'. Expected a single quoted or unquoted identifier. Separate name parts should not be quoted individually.
----

In this example scenario, the correct quoting would either be

[source,cypher]
----
CREATE DATABASE `foo.bar`
----

or

[source,cypher]
----
CREATE DATABASE foo.bar
----

ifndef::backend-pdf[]
[discrete.glossary]
== Glossary

include::partial$glossary.adoc[]
endif::[]

Commit message:

Improve 42NAA docs:
- Mention parameters as the recommended approach
- Change example to use CREATE ALIAS instead of CREATE DATABASE
- Make it clearer which example queries only applies to Cypher 25

modules/ROOT/pages/errors/gql-errors/42NAA.adoc, after:

= 42NAA

== Status description
error: syntax error or access rule violation - incorrectly formatted graph reference. Incorrectly formatted graph reference `{ <<input>> }`. Expected a single quoted or unquoted identifier. Separate name parts should not be quoted individually.

== Explanation
As of Cypher 25, database names and aliases cannot include name parts that are quoted individually.
Either the whole name must be quoted, or the whole name must be unquoted.
A recommended approach, which is consistent between different commands and Cypher versions, is to send in the database name or alias as a parameter rather than a string literal.

== Example scenario
For example, try to create a database with

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25 CREATE ALIAS `foo`.`bar` FOR DATABASE baz
----

An error will be thrown with GQLSTATUS 42NAA and the status description

[source]
----
error: syntax error or access rule violation - incorrectly formatted graph reference. Incorrectly formatted graph reference '`foo`.`bar`'. Expected a single quoted or unquoted identifier. Separate name parts should not be quoted individually.
----

In this example scenario, the preferred way is to send in the alias name as a parameter

.Parameters
[source, parameters]
----
{
  "aliasName": "foo.bar"
}
----

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
CREATE ALIAS $aliasName FOR DATABASE baz
----

Alternatively, if a string literal is used, the correct quoting for Cypher 25 would either be

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25 CREATE ALIAS `foo.bar` FOR DATABASE baz
----

or

[source,cypher]
----
CYPHER 25 CREATE ALIAS foo.bar FOR DATABASE baz
----

ifndef::backend-pdf[]
[discrete.glossary]
== Glossary

include::partial$glossary.adoc[]
endif::[]
