README.adoc, before:

:docs-uri: https://neo4j.com/docs

= docs-status-codes

This repository contains the AsciiDoc and other sources to build the link:{docs-uri}/status-codes[Neo4j Status Codes].

[[local-build]]
== Installation

To build these docs locally you will need link:https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/[Node & NPM^] installed.

To install the dependencies run:

[source, sh]
----
npm install
----

[[live-preview]]
== Live Preview

To preview the docs, run:

[source, sh]
----
npm run start
----

This will build a set of HTML files in `build/site` and then serve them through an express server at http://localhost:8000.
The start script will also listen for changes and automatically rebuild the files.
You will still need to refresh the page to view the changes.

[[contributing]]
== Contributing

To make changes to this repository, please create a fork of this repo and a new branch to stage your changes.
Your branch should be prefixed with the version number, for example, `dev-new-examples`.

When you are finished with your changes push the branch to your fork and create a Pull Request.
Please add at least one approver.

[[guidelines]]
== Guidelines for writing errors and notifications

The new errors and notifications are written in the `neo4j` repo and then added to this repo `docs-status-codes` by adding the notification or error details and examples.

[[general-guidelines]]
=== General guidelines

* Use sentence case (you capitalize the first letter, proper nouns, and names, just like you would in a normal sentence) and punctuation.
* Always use present tense and active voice (when the subject of the sentence is the one doing the action, see https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/active-vs-passive-voice-difference) if possible.
* Be specific and try to use only words that count.
* Avoid repeating content from other parts, such as title, description, code, etc.
* Avoid using verbs or verb derivatives, for example, “Using”, “Running”, “The use of”, “Adding”.
* Do not use exclamation marks.
* Avoid blaming the user.
Focus the message on the problem that could be fixed.
+
For example, “Did not supply query with enough parameters.“ could be rewritten to “The query does not have enough parameters”.
+
“You are using an experimental feature.” is another example of focusing on the user instead of what the notification is about.
It could be omitted as the title already says that it is an experimental feature.
* Avoid using “please”.
* Avoid the phrase “It is recommended to” when proposing a solution.
* Capitalize all Cypher keywords, i.e., `MATCH` rather than `match` or `Match`.

[[error-notification-components]]
=== Error and notification components

Each error and notification comprises the following components, some of which are documented only here in this repo.

[options="header",cols="h,2,2,2"]
|===
| Element
| More information
| Notification
| Error

| StatusCode (`Neo.[Type].[SubType].[Name]`)
| See <<statuscode-syntax, StatusCode syntax>>.
| For example, `Neo.ClientNotification.Statement.CartesianProduct`.
| For example, `Neo.DatabaseError.Statement.RemoteExecutionFailed`.

| Notification title/ Error description (Will be removed in 6.0)
| See <<notification-titleerror-description, Notification title/error description>>.
| For example, `This query builds a cartesian product between disconnected patterns.`
| For example, `The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement.`

| SeverityLevel
|
| One of `INFORMATION`\|`WARNING`
m| ERROR

| Category
|
| One of `DEPRECATION`\|`HINT`\|`UNSUPPORTED`\|`UNRECOGNIZED`\|`SECURITY`\|`GENERIC`\|`PERFORMANCE`\|`TOPOLOGY`
| N/A

| Notification description (Will be removed in 6.0)
| See <<notification-description, Notification description>>.
| Contains the main information, such as the problem, cause, consequences, and a simple solution (if possible).
| N/A

| Message (It will replace the notification title and description, and the error description and message in 6.0.)
| See <<message, Message>>.
2+| Contains the main information, such as the problem, cause, consequences, a simple solution if possible.

| Example (only in the Neo4j Status Codes documentation)
| See <<example, Example>>.
| Contains one or more example queries to illustrate the possible scenarios when this notification would be returned.
| N/A for 5.x

| Suggestions for improvement (only in the Neo4j Status Codes documentation)
| See <<example, Example>>.
| Contains a possible solution for the provided example query.
| N/A for 5.x
|===

The following are guidelines on how to write each of the notification and error components.

[[statuscode-syntax]]
==== StatusCode syntax

All Neo4j status codes follow the syntax `Neo.[Type].[SubType].[Name]`.

[options="header",cols="h,1,2,3,3,2",]
|===
| StatusCode
| `Neo`
| `[Type]`
| `[SubType]`
| `[Name]`
| Example

| Notification
| `Neo`
| `ClientNotification`
| One of `Statement`, `Procedure`, `Schema`, `Database`, `Security`, `Cluster`, or `Request`.
| Should be specific and explains what this code refers to, e.g., `ExhaustiveShortestPath`.
| `Neo.ClientNotification.Statement.ExhaustiveShortestPath`

| Error
| `Neo`
| One of `ClientError`, `TransientError`, `DatabaseError`
| One of `ChangeDataCapture`, `Cluster`, `Database`, `Fabric` (deprecated), `General`, `Procedure`, `Request`, `Routing`, `Schema`, `Security`, `Statement`, `Transaction`.
| Should be specific and explains what this code refers to, e.g., `RemoteExecutionFailed`.
| `Neo.DatabaseError.Statement.RemoteExecutionFailed`
|===

[[notification-titleerror-description]]
==== Notification title/error description

The notification title and the error description contain similar information.
Therefore, they follow the same guidelines.
Both should be brief (one short sentence), specific, and inform on the current situation and what code of the query triggered the notification/error (add it within backticks to show that it’s a code snippet).
Avoid explaining the cause, consequences, or solution.
The notification title and description will be replaced by a single field `message` in 6.0.
The error description in 5.x is used just as a fallback error message in some specific cases, and in 6.0, it will no longer be used.
See <<message, Message>>.

.Examples for notification title and error description
[options="header",cols="h,2,2",]
|===
| Example
| ⛔ Don't
| ✅ Do

| Notification title 1
| The provided pattern is unbounded, consider adding an upper limit to the number of node hops.
| The pattern `<pattern>` is unbounded.

| Notification title 2
| The provided label is not in the database.
| The label `Perso` does not exist.
|===

[[notification-description]]
==== Notification description

The Notification description should contain the most important information for the user.
They should be brief, scannable, specific, and contain the following details (if applicable):

* Cause -- what triggered the code to be returned.
* Consequences -- why it might be a problem.
* A simple solution if possible.

.Examples of notification descriptions
[options="header",cols="h,2,2",]
|===
| Example
| ⛔ Don't
| ✅ Do

| Notification description 1
| Using shortest path with an unbounded pattern will likely result in long execution times.
It is recommended to use an upper limit to the number of node hops in your pattern.
| Shortest path with an unbounded pattern may result in long execution times.
Use an upper limit to the number of node hops in your pattern.

| Notification description 2
| Using an already bound variable for a variable length relationship is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. (the repeated variable is: r)
| A variable length relationship that is bound more than once does not return any result.

| Notification description 3
| One of the labels in your query is not available in the database, make sure you didn’t misspell it or that the label is available when you run this statement in your application (the missing label name is: Perso)
| Non-existing labels yield no result. Verify that the label is spelled correctly.
|===

[[message]]
==== Message

In 6.0, the notifications and errors will have only a message, which will be used instead of the notification title and description, and the error description and message.

The message should follow the same guidelines as the notification description, namely:

The message should contain the most important information for the user.
It should be brief, scannable, specific, and contain the following details (if applicable):

* Problem -- what happened and what code of the query triggered the notification/error (add it within backticks to show that it’s a code snippet).
* Cause -- what triggered the code to be returned.
* A simple solution if possible.

.Examples of error messages
[options="header",cols="h,2,2",]
|===
| Example
| ⛔ Don't
| ✅ Do

| Error message 1
| Failed to create the specified database '%s':  The total limit of databases is already reached. To create more you need to either drop databases or change the limit via the config setting 'dbms.max_databases'
| Failed to create the database `$param1`. The limit of databases is reached. Either increase the limit using the config setting `$param2` or drop a database.

| Error message 2
| Database does not exist. Database name: '%s'
| `$param` database not found. Verify that the spelling is correct.

| Error message 3
| The allocation of an extra %s would use more than the limit %s. Currently using %s. %s threshold reached
| Failed to allocate `$param1`. Currently using $param2`. Increase the memory pool limit using `$param3`.
|===

[[example]]
==== Example

[NOTE]
====
This component is currently documented only for notifications.
If you are updating an error, you can skip this section.
====

The examples and possible solutions are written only here in this repo, for the Neo4j Status Codes documentation.

Add one or more example queries to illustrate the possible scenarios when this notification would be returned.
They should look similar to the following:

.<Add a caption that explains the example>
====
Query::
+
[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
Here write the query.
----

Description of the returned code::
Same as in the `neo4j` repo.

Suggestions for improvement::

Give a possible solution for the provided example query.
====

For example:

[options="header",cols="2,2",]
|===
| ⛔ Don't
| ✅ Do

a| .Cartesian product
====
Query::
+
[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
MATCH (c:Child), (p:Parent) RETURN c, p
----

Description of the returned code::
If a part of a query contains multiple disconnected patterns,
this will build a cartesian product between all those parts.
This may produce a large amount of data and slow down query processing.
While occasionally intended, it may often be possible to reformulate the query that avoids the use of this cross product,
perhaps by adding a relationship between the different parts or by using `OPTIONAL MATCH` (identifier is: (`p`))

Suggestions for improvement::
In case a cartesian product is needed, nothing can be done to improve this query.
In many cases, however, you might not need a combination of all children and parents, and that is when this query could be improved.
If for example, you need the children and the children's parents, you can improve this query by rewriting it to the following:
+
[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
MATCH (c:Child)-[:ChildOf]->(p:Parent) RETURN c, p
----
====
a| .Cartesian product
====
Query::
+
[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
MATCH (c:Child), (p:Parent) RETURN c, p
----

Description of the returned code::
The disconnected patterns `$param` build a cartesian product. A cartesian product may produce a large amount of data and slow down query processing.

Suggestions for improvement::
If you only need the children and the children's parents, and not all combinations between them, add `[:ChildOf]` between the `Child` and the `Parent` nodes:

[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
MATCH (c:Child)-[:ChildOf]->(p:Parent) RETURN c, p
----
====
|===

Commit message:

Add a section about severity level to the guidelines (#90) (#93)

README.adoc, after:

:docs-uri: https://neo4j.com/docs

= docs-status-codes

This repository contains the AsciiDoc and other sources to build the link:{docs-uri}/status-codes[Neo4j Status Codes].

[[local-build]]
== Installation

To build these docs locally you will need link:https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/[Node & NPM^] installed.

To install the dependencies run:

[source, sh]
----
npm install
----

[[live-preview]]
== Live Preview

To preview the docs, run:

[source, sh]
----
npm run start
----

This will build a set of HTML files in `build/site` and then serve them through an express server at http://localhost:8000.
The start script will also listen for changes and automatically rebuild the files.
You will still need to refresh the page to view the changes.

[[contributing]]
== Contributing

To make changes to this repository, please create a fork of this repo and a new branch to stage your changes.
Your branch should be prefixed with the version number, for example, `dev-new-examples`.

When you are finished with your changes push the branch to your fork and create a Pull Request.
Please add at least one approver.

[[guidelines]]
== Guidelines for writing errors and notifications

The new errors and notifications are written in the `neo4j` repo and then added to this repo `docs-status-codes` by adding the notification or error details and examples.

[[general-guidelines]]
=== General guidelines

* Use sentence case (you capitalize the first letter, proper nouns, and names, just like you would in a normal sentence) and punctuation.
* Always use present tense and active voice (when the subject of the sentence is the one doing the action, see https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/active-vs-passive-voice-difference) if possible.
* Be specific and try to use only words that count.
* Avoid repeating content from other parts, such as title, description, code, etc.
* Avoid using verbs or verb derivatives, for example, “Using”, “Running”, “The use of”, “Adding”.
* Do not use exclamation marks.
* Avoid blaming the user.
Focus the message on the problem that could be fixed.
+
For example, “Did not supply query with enough parameters.“ could be rewritten to “The query does not have enough parameters”.
+
“You are using an experimental feature.” is another example of focusing on the user instead of what the notification is about.
It could be omitted as the title already says that it is an experimental feature.
* Avoid using “please”.
* Avoid the phrase “It is recommended to” when proposing a solution.
* Capitalize all Cypher keywords, i.e., `MATCH` rather than `match` or `Match`.

[[error-notification-components]]
=== Error and notification components

Each error and notification comprises the following components, some of which are documented only here in this repo.

[options="header",cols="h,2,2,2"]
|===
| Element
| More information
| Notification
| Error

| StatusCode (`Neo.[Type].[SubType].[Name]`)
| See <<statuscode-syntax, StatusCode syntax>>.
| For example, `Neo.ClientNotification.Statement.CartesianProduct`.
| For example, `Neo.DatabaseError.Statement.RemoteExecutionFailed`.

| Notification title/ Error description (Will be removed in 6.0)
| See <<notification-titleerror-description, Notification title/error description>>.
| For example, `This query builds a cartesian product between disconnected patterns.`
| For example, `The database was unable to execute a remote part of the statement.`

| SeverityLevel
| See <<severity-level, Severity level>>.
| One of `INFORMATION`\|`WARNING`
m| ERROR

| Category
|
| One of `DEPRECATION`\|`HINT`\|`UNSUPPORTED`\|`UNRECOGNIZED`\|`SECURITY`\|`GENERIC`\|`PERFORMANCE`\|`TOPOLOGY`
| N/A

| Notification description (Will be removed in 6.0)
| See <<notification-description, Notification description>>.
| Contains the main information, such as the problem, cause, consequences, and a simple solution (if possible).
| N/A

| Message (It will replace the notification title and description, and the error description and message in 6.0.)
| See <<message, Message>>.
2+| Contains the main information, such as the problem, cause, consequences, a simple solution if possible.

| Example (only in the Neo4j Status Codes documentation)
| See <<example, Example>>.
| Contains one or more example queries to illustrate the possible scenarios when this notification would be returned.
| N/A for 5.x

| Suggestions for improvement (only in the Neo4j Status Codes documentation)
| See <<example, Example>>.
| Contains a possible solution for the provided example query.
| N/A for 5.x
|===

The following are guidelines on how to write each of the notification and error components.

[[statuscode-syntax]]
==== StatusCode syntax

All Neo4j status codes follow the syntax `Neo.[Type].[SubType].[Name]`.

[options="header",cols="h,1,2,3,3,2",]
|===
| StatusCode
| `Neo`
| `[Type]`
| `[SubType]`
| `[Name]`
| Example

| Notification
| `Neo`
| `ClientNotification`
| One of `Statement`, `Procedure`, `Schema`, `Database`, `Security`, `Cluster`, or `Request`.
| Should be specific and explains what this code refers to, e.g., `ExhaustiveShortestPath`.
| `Neo.ClientNotification.Statement.ExhaustiveShortestPath`

| Error
| `Neo`
| One of `ClientError`, `TransientError`, `DatabaseError`
| One of `ChangeDataCapture`, `Cluster`, `Database`, `Fabric` (deprecated), `General`, `Procedure`, `Request`, `Routing`, `Schema`, `Security`, `Statement`, `Transaction`.
| Should be specific and explains what this code refers to, e.g., `RemoteExecutionFailed`.
| `Neo.DatabaseError.Statement.RemoteExecutionFailed`
|===

[[notification-titleerror-description]]
==== Notification title/error description

The notification title and the error description contain similar information.
Therefore, they follow the same guidelines.
Both should be brief (one short sentence), specific, and inform on the current situation and what code of the query triggered the notification/error (add it within backticks to show that it’s a code snippet).
Avoid explaining the cause, consequences, or solution.
The notification title and description will be replaced by a single field `message` in 6.0.
The error description in 5.x is used just as a fallback error message in some specific cases, and in 6.0, it will no longer be used.
See <<message, Message>>.

.Examples for notification title and error description
[options="header",cols="h,2,2",]
|===
| Example
| ⛔ Don't
| ✅ Do

| Notification title 1
| The provided pattern is unbounded, consider adding an upper limit to the number of node hops.
| The pattern `<pattern>` is unbounded.

| Notification title 2
| The provided label is not in the database.
| The label `Perso` does not exist.
|===

[[severity-level]]
==== Severity level

The severity can be one of the following:

* `WARNING`: It is about queries/commands that may have structural, syntactic, semantic, or spelling issues where the query most probably is wrong and/or should be updated.
This includes deprecations, experimental features, trying to match entities with non-existing labels, etc.
It should be clear what the problem is and it is also good to tell the possible cause, and the consequences, as well as give an example(s) and suggestion(s) for improvement.
The most important part is that "we are (almost) certain it is a problem" and we know how to fix their query.
For example:

** Deprecations – The users need to update the query with new functionality.
** Experimental features – These cannot be trusted and should be updated if used in production.
** Non-existing label – This query will never give any result, so it's either useless to run OR a misspelled label (unless they add a node with the label, but then the notification would disappear).

* `INFORMATION`: It is about queries/commands that are correct but may have some performance issues or that have no effect because they try to do something already done.
Depending on the case, we may give an example(s) and suggestion(s) for improvement.

* `ERROR`: It is about queries/commands that fail to succeed.
It's good to tell the user what triggers the error, an example, and a possible solution(s).

[[notification-description]]
==== Notification description

The Notification description should contain the most important information for the user.
They should be brief, scannable, specific, and contain the following details (if applicable):

* Cause -- what triggered the code to be returned.
* Consequences -- why it might be a problem.
* A simple solution if possible.

.Examples of notification descriptions
[options="header",cols="h,2,2",]
|===
| Example
| ⛔ Don't
| ✅ Do

| Notification description 1
| Using shortest path with an unbounded pattern will likely result in long execution times.
It is recommended to use an upper limit to the number of node hops in your pattern.
| Shortest path with an unbounded pattern may result in long execution times.
Use an upper limit to the number of node hops in your pattern.

| Notification description 2
| Using an already bound variable for a variable length relationship is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. (the repeated variable is: r)
| A variable length relationship that is bound more than once does not return any result.

| Notification description 3
| One of the labels in your query is not available in the database, make sure you didn’t misspell it or that the label is available when you run this statement in your application (the missing label name is: Perso)
| Non-existing labels yield no result. Verify that the label is spelled correctly.
|===

[[message]]
==== Message

In 6.0, the notifications and errors will have only a message, which will be used instead of the notification title and description, and the error description and message.

The message should follow the same guidelines as the notification description, namely:

The message should contain the most important information for the user.
It should be brief, scannable, specific, and contain the following details (if applicable):

* Problem -- what happened and what code of the query triggered the notification/error (add it within backticks to show that it’s a code snippet).
* Cause -- what triggered the code to be returned.
* A simple solution if possible.

.Examples of error messages
[options="header",cols="h,2,2",]
|===
| Example
| ⛔ Don't
| ✅ Do

| Error message 1
| Failed to create the specified database '%s':  The total limit of databases is already reached. To create more you need to either drop databases or change the limit via the config setting 'dbms.max_databases'
| Failed to create the database `$param1`. The limit of databases is reached. Either increase the limit using the config setting `$param2` or drop a database.

| Error message 2
| Database does not exist. Database name: '%s'
| `$param` database not found. Verify that the spelling is correct.

| Error message 3
| The allocation of an extra %s would use more than the limit %s. Currently using %s. %s threshold reached
| Failed to allocate `$param1`. Currently using $param2`. Increase the memory pool limit using `$param3`.
|===

[[example]]
==== Example

[NOTE]
====
This component is currently documented only for notifications.
If you are updating an error, you can skip this section.
====

The examples and possible solutions are written only here in this repo, for the Neo4j Status Codes documentation.

Add one or more example queries to illustrate the possible scenarios when this notification would be returned.
They should look similar to the following:

.<Add a caption that explains the example>
====
Query::
+
[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
Here write the query.
----

Description of the returned code::
Same as in the `neo4j` repo.

Suggestions for improvement::

Give a possible solution for the provided example query.
====

For example:

[options="header",cols="2,2",]
|===
| ⛔ Don't
| ✅ Do

a| .Cartesian product
====
Query::
+
[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
MATCH (c:Child), (p:Parent) RETURN c, p
----

Description of the returned code::
If a part of a query contains multiple disconnected patterns,
this will build a cartesian product between all those parts.
This may produce a large amount of data and slow down query processing.
While occasionally intended, it may often be possible to reformulate the query that avoids the use of this cross product,
perhaps by adding a relationship between the different parts or by using `OPTIONAL MATCH` (identifier is: (`p`))

Suggestions for improvement::
In case a cartesian product is needed, nothing can be done to improve this query.
In many cases, however, you might not need a combination of all children and parents, and that is when this query could be improved.
If for example, you need the children and the children's parents, you can improve this query by rewriting it to the following:
+
[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
MATCH (c:Child)-[:ChildOf]->(p:Parent) RETURN c, p
----
====
a| .Cartesian product
====
Query::
+
[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
MATCH (c:Child), (p:Parent) RETURN c, p
----

Description of the returned code::
The disconnected patterns `$param` build a cartesian product. A cartesian product may produce a large amount of data and slow down query processing.

Suggestions for improvement::
If you only need the children and the children's parents, and not all combinations between them, add `[:ChildOf]` between the `Child` and the `Parent` nodes:

[source, cypher, role="noplay"]
----
MATCH (c:Child)-[:ChildOf]->(p:Parent) RETURN c, p
----
====
|===
