modules/ROOT/partials/glossary.adoc, before:

[glossary]

[[action]]$action:: Freeform description of an action.
//$action will be replaced by cmd and msg depending on the usage.
[[alias]]$alias:: An alias name, `mydb-alias`.
[[aliasList]]$aliasList:: A list of alias names, for example, `mydb-alias1, mydb-alias2`.
[[allocType]]$allocType:: Allocation type (`primary` or `secondary`).
[[arg]]$arg:: Procedure or function argument, for example, `database`, `pause`, `dryrun`, etc.
[[argType]]$argType:: Argument type, either input or output.
[[auth]]$auth:: Auth provider name, for example, `ldap`, `native`.
[[boltServerState]]$boltServerState:: Bolt server state, for example, `READY`.
[[boltMsgLenLimit]]$boltMsgLenLimit:: Bolt message length limit, for example, `1000`.
[[bytes]]$bytes:: Number of bytes.
[[cause]]$cause:: Freeform description of what caused the error.
[[cfgSetting]]$cfgSetting:: Configuration setting key, for example, `server.https.enabled`.
[[clause]]$clause:: A Cypher clause, for example, `USE`, `MATCH`.
[[clauseList]]$clause:: A list of Cypher clauses, for example, `USE, MATCH`.
[[cmd]]$cmd:: A Cypher command, for example, `DROP DATABASE`, `PROFILE`, `SHOW PROCEDURES`.
[[component]]$component:: A component of something, for example, hours/minutes within a time, a subset input within the whole input, `TOPOLOGY` clause within the whole `CREATE/ALTER DB ... SET TOPOLOGY`, etc.
// we need to change the parameter $component in 51N27 to `$feat` maybe.
[[constr]]$constr:: Constraint name, for example, `book_isbn`.
//Change $constr to $constrName
[[constrDescrOrName]]$constrDescrOrName:: Constraint description, `(:Label {property0, property1, property2, property1, property3})`.
//Change $constrDescrOrName to $constrDescr
[[context]]$context:: Freeform description of a context, where something is invalid or unsupported, `OPTIONS`, `URL`, `username`, etc.
[[coordinates]]$coordinates:: Coordinate value, for example, `[3.15, 4.012, 5.905]`.
[[count]]$count:: Number of something, for example, `3`.
[[countAllocs]]$countAllocs:: Desired number of servers to use.
[[countSeeders]]$countSeeders:: Number of seeding servers.
//To check with the clustering team about $countAllocs and $countSeeders.
[[crs]]$crs:: Coordinate reference system, for example, `WGS84`.
[[db]]$db:: Database name, for example, `myDb`.
[[dbList]]$dbList:: A list of database names.
[[dim]]$dim:: Number representing index or point dimenionality.
[[edition]]$edition:: Neo4j edition, for example, Community or Enterprise.
[[endpointType]]$endpointType:: One of `start` or `end` of a relationship.
[[entityId]]$entityId:: ID of a node or a relationship.
[[entityType]]$entityType:: A node or a relationship.
[[expr]]$expr:: Cypher expression, for example, `1 + n.prop`.
[[exprType]]$exprType:: Freeform expression type, for example, `EXISTS`, `COUNT`, `COLLECT`.
[[feat]]$feat:: Freeform feature description.
[[field]]$field:: Input field, for example, of a procedure, function, or deserialization.
//52N22 and 52N36 to change $field to $arg. Check 22N98 with Antonio.
[[fun]]$fun:: Function name, for example, `collect()`.
[[funClass]]$funClass:: User-defined function implementation class name, for example, `MyFunctionClass`.
[[funType]]$funType:: Function type, e.g. non-deterministic or aggregate.
[[graph]]$graph:: The name of a graph, for example, `myGraph`.
[[graphTypeDependence]]$graphTypeDependence:: Graph type dependencency for constraint, one of `UNDESIGNATED`, `INDEPENDENT`, or `DEPENDENT`.
[[hint]]$hint:: Freeform description of a hint, for example, `USING INDEX n:N(prop)`.
[[hintList]]$hintList:: A list of free form descriptions of hints like `USING INDEX n:N(prop)`.
[[idx]]$idx:: Index name, `my_index`.
//Change $idx to $idxName
[[idxDescr]]$idxDescr:: Index description, for example, `INDEX :Person(name)`.
[[idxDescrOrName]]$idxDescrOrName:: Index descriptor or name.
//Change all error parameters to $idxDescr or $idxName, and remove $idxDescrOrName.
[[idxOrConstr]]$idxOrConstr:: Index or constraint name, for example, `my_index` or `book_isbn`.
[[idxOrConstrPat]]$idxOrConstrPat:: Index or constraint pattern, for example, `CREATE CONSTRAINT bar IF NOT EXISTS FOR (n:L) REQUIRE (n.p1) IS NODE KEY`.
[[idxType]]$idxType:: Index type, for example, text, vector, etc.
[[input]]$input:: Piece of user input.
[[inputList]]$inputList:: A list of user inputs.
[[item]]$item:: Freeform description of an item.
//Change 22N90 to $valType, 51N30 to $feat maybe (check with Lasse). Remove $item.
[[keyword]]$keyword:: Cypher keyword, for example, `MERGE`.
[[label]]$label:: Label name, for example, `Person`.
[[labelExpr]]$labelExpr:: Label expression, for example, `(n:Movie|Person)`.
[[labelList]]$labelList:: A list of label names, for example, `Person, Actor`.
[[lower]]$lower:: The lowest accepted number of a range.
[[mapKey]]$mapKey:: Map key.
[[mapKeyList]]$mapKeyList:: A list of map keys, for example, `first and second` in the map `{first: 1, second: 2}`.
[[matchMode]]$matchMode:: GPM match mode, for example, `REPEATABLE ELEMENTS`.
[[msg]]$msg:: Freeform message.
[[msgTitle]]$msgTitle:: Freeform message title.
//Change $msgTitle to $excClass
[[namespaceList]]$namespaceList:: A list of namespaces of procedures, for example, `apoc.math.`.
[[operation]]$operation:: A mathematical operation, for example, `/ by zero`, `>`.
//Change 51N69 to something else.
[[option]]$option:: Option name
//This needs further investigation.
[[optionList]]$optionList:: A list of option names.
//This needs further investigation.
[[param]]$param:: Parameter name, for example, `$pattern`.
[[paramList]]$paramList:: A list of parameters, for example `$pattern, $prop`.
[[pat]]$pat:: Pattern, for example, `(:Person)`.
[[port]]$port:: Port name, for example, `6362`.
[[portList]]$portList:: A list of port names, for example, `6362, 6000, 7000`.
[[pos]]$pos:: A position, for example, in a sequence, for example, `2`
[[pred]]$pred:: A predicate, for example, `x = 3`.
[[predList]]$predList:: A list of predicates, for example, `'x = 3', 'y > 4'`.
[[preparserInput]]$preparserInput:: Piece of preparser input.
//Change in the code to $input and update the notifications.
[[proc]]$proc:: Procedure name, for example, `db.labels()`.
[[procClass]]$procClass:: User-defined procedure implementation class name, for example, `MyProcedureClass`.
[[procExeMode]]$procExeMode:: Procedure execution mode, one of `READ`, `WRITE`, `SCHEMA`, and `DBMS`.
[[procField]]$procField:: User-defined procedure implementation class argument name, for example, `myArgument`.
//Change $proField to $arg
[[procFieldType]]$procFieldType:: User-defined procedure implementation class argument type, one of `input` or `output`.
//Change $procFieldType to $argType
[[procFun]]$procFun:: Procedure or function name or ID, for example, `db.labels()` or `collect()`.
[[procMethod]]$procMethod:: User-defined procedure implementation class method name, for example, `myProcedureMethod`
[[procParam]]$procParam:: User-defined procedure implementation parameter name.
[[procParamFmt]]$procParamFmt:: Freeform user-defined procedure implementation parameter format, for example, `com.example.*`.
[[propKey]]$propKey:: Property key name, for example, `name`.
[[propKeyList]]$propKeyList:: A list of property key names, for example, `name, age, hometown`.
[[query]]$query:: A statement that retrieves or writes information to a database, for example, `MATCH (n) WHERE n.prop`.
[[reasonList]]$reasonList:: A list of reasons of the failure.
[[relType]]$relType:: Relationship type name, for example, `KNOWS`.
[[replacement]]$replacement:: A free-form text, a replacement of a deprecated feature, a Cypher command, etc.
[[role]]$role:: RBAC role name, for example, `admin`, `public`, `receptionist`.
[[routingPolicy]]$routingPolicy:: Routing policy name.
[[runtime]]$runtime:: Cypher runtime name. One of `slotted`, `pipelined`, and `parallel`.
[[schemaDescr]]$schemaDescr:: Schema descriptor, for example, `(:Label1 \{prop1})`.
[[schemaDescrType]]$schemaDescrType:: Freeform type of schema descriptor, for example, `label property existence constraint`.
[[selector]]$selector:: GPM path selector, for example, `ALL PATHS`, `SHORTEST 2`, etc.
[[selectorType]]$selectorType:: Selector type.
//Ask Lasse about $selectorType (releated to CDC) and has nothing to do with $selector.
[[server]]$server:: Server name or ID, for example, `25a7efc7-d063-44b8-bdee-f23357f89f01`.
[[serverList]]$serverList:: A list of server names or IDs, for example, `'server-1', 'server-2'`.
[[serverType]]$serverType:: Server type, `PRIMARY` (primaryConstrained), `SECONDARY` (secondaryConstrained), or `NONE`.
[[serverAddress]]$serverAddress:: Server address, for example, `localhost:20025`.
[[sig]]$sig:: Procedure or function signature, for example, `date(input = DEFAULT_TEMPORAL_ARGUMENT :: ANY) :: DATE`
[[storeFormat]]$storeFormat:: Store format name. One of "aligned", "block", "standard", "high_limit".
[[syntax]]$syntax:: Cypher syntax or keyword.
[[temporal]]$temporal:: Temporal value, for example, `2025-02-18`.
[[timeAmount]]$timeAmount:: Integral amount of time unit (a number).
[[timeUnit]]$timeUnit:: Common time unit name, for example, `seconds`, `minutes`, `hours`.
[[token]]$token:: Token name, for example, `MyLabel`, `MyRelationshipType`, `myPropertyKey`.
[[tokenId]]$tokenId:: Token ID.
[[tokenType]]$tokenType:: One of a label, a relationship type, or a property key.
[[transactionId]]$transactionId:: The transaction ID of a running query.
[[typeDescription]]$typeDescription:: Freeform description of a type e.g. 'a list'.
[[upper]]$upper:: The highest accepted number of a range.
[[url]]$url:: A URL, for example, https://example.com.
[[user]]$user:: A user name, for example, `neo4j`.
[[value]]$value:: Some value.
[[valueList]]$valueList:: A list of values.
[[valueType]]$valueType:: Cypher value type, for example, `STRING`, `BOOLEAN`, `INTEGER`, `LIST<STRING>`, etc.
[[valueTypeList]]$valueTypeList:: A list of Cypher value types.
[[variable]]$variable:: Variable name, for example, `n`.
[[variableList]]$variableList:: A list of variable names, for example, `a, b, c`.

Commit message:

Add errors for unsupported combinations with path modes

modules/ROOT/partials/glossary.adoc, after:

[glossary]

[[action]]$action:: Freeform description of an action.
//$action will be replaced by cmd and msg depending on the usage.
[[alias]]$alias:: An alias name, `mydb-alias`.
[[aliasList]]$aliasList:: A list of alias names, for example, `mydb-alias1, mydb-alias2`.
[[allocType]]$allocType:: Allocation type (`primary` or `secondary`).
[[arg]]$arg:: Procedure or function argument, for example, `database`, `pause`, `dryrun`, etc.
[[argType]]$argType:: Argument type, either input or output.
[[auth]]$auth:: Auth provider name, for example, `ldap`, `native`.
[[boltServerState]]$boltServerState:: Bolt server state, for example, `READY`.
[[boltMsgLenLimit]]$boltMsgLenLimit:: Bolt message length limit, for example, `1000`.
[[bytes]]$bytes:: Number of bytes.
[[cause]]$cause:: Freeform description of what caused the error.
[[cfgSetting]]$cfgSetting:: Configuration setting key, for example, `server.https.enabled`.
[[clause]]$clause:: A Cypher clause, for example, `USE`, `MATCH`.
[[clauseList]]$clause:: A list of Cypher clauses, for example, `USE, MATCH`.
[[cmd]]$cmd:: A Cypher command, for example, `DROP DATABASE`, `PROFILE`, `SHOW PROCEDURES`.
[[component]]$component:: A component of something, for example, hours/minutes within a time, a subset input within the whole input, `TOPOLOGY` clause within the whole `CREATE/ALTER DB ... SET TOPOLOGY`, etc.
// we need to change the parameter $component in 51N27 to `$feat` maybe.
[[constr]]$constr:: Constraint name, for example, `book_isbn`.
//Change $constr to $constrName
[[constrDescrOrName]]$constrDescrOrName:: Constraint description, `(:Label {property0, property1, property2, property1, property3})`.
//Change $constrDescrOrName to $constrDescr
[[context]]$context:: Freeform description of a context, where something is invalid or unsupported, `OPTIONS`, `URL`, `username`, etc.
[[coordinates]]$coordinates:: Coordinate value, for example, `[3.15, 4.012, 5.905]`.
[[count]]$count:: Number of something, for example, `3`.
[[countAllocs]]$countAllocs:: Desired number of servers to use.
[[countSeeders]]$countSeeders:: Number of seeding servers.
//To check with the clustering team about $countAllocs and $countSeeders.
[[crs]]$crs:: Coordinate reference system, for example, `WGS84`.
[[db]]$db:: Database name, for example, `myDb`.
[[dbList]]$dbList:: A list of database names.
[[dim]]$dim:: Number representing index or point dimenionality.
[[edition]]$edition:: Neo4j edition, for example, Community or Enterprise.
[[endpointType]]$endpointType:: One of `start` or `end` of a relationship.
[[entityId]]$entityId:: ID of a node or a relationship.
[[entityType]]$entityType:: A node or a relationship.
[[expr]]$expr:: Cypher expression, for example, `1 + n.prop`.
[[exprType]]$exprType:: Freeform expression type, for example, `EXISTS`, `COUNT`, `COLLECT`.
[[feat]]$feat:: Freeform feature description.
[[field]]$field:: Input field, for example, of a procedure, function, or deserialization.
//52N22 and 52N36 to change $field to $arg. Check 22N98 with Antonio.
[[fun]]$fun:: Function name, for example, `collect()`.
[[funClass]]$funClass:: User-defined function implementation class name, for example, `MyFunctionClass`.
[[funType]]$funType:: Function type, e.g. non-deterministic or aggregate.
[[graph]]$graph:: The name of a graph, for example, `myGraph`.
[[graphTypeDependence]]$graphTypeDependence:: Graph type dependencency for constraint, one of `UNDESIGNATED`, `INDEPENDENT`, or `DEPENDENT`.
[[hint]]$hint:: Freeform description of a hint, for example, `USING INDEX n:N(prop)`.
[[hintList]]$hintList:: A list of free form descriptions of hints like `USING INDEX n:N(prop)`.
[[idx]]$idx:: Index name, `my_index`.
//Change $idx to $idxName
[[idxDescr]]$idxDescr:: Index description, for example, `INDEX :Person(name)`.
[[idxDescrOrName]]$idxDescrOrName:: Index descriptor or name.
//Change all error parameters to $idxDescr or $idxName, and remove $idxDescrOrName.
[[idxOrConstr]]$idxOrConstr:: Index or constraint name, for example, `my_index` or `book_isbn`.
[[idxOrConstrPat]]$idxOrConstrPat:: Index or constraint pattern, for example, `CREATE CONSTRAINT bar IF NOT EXISTS FOR (n:L) REQUIRE (n.p1) IS NODE KEY`.
[[idxType]]$idxType:: Index type, for example, text, vector, etc.
[[input]]$input:: Piece of user input.
[[inputList]]$inputList:: A list of user inputs.
[[item]]$item:: Freeform description of an item.
//Change 22N90 to $valType, 51N30 to $feat maybe (check with Lasse). Remove $item.
[[keyword]]$keyword:: Cypher keyword, for example, `MERGE`.
[[label]]$label:: Label name, for example, `Person`.
[[labelExpr]]$labelExpr:: Label expression, for example, `(n:Movie|Person)`.
[[labelList]]$labelList:: A list of label names, for example, `Person, Actor`.
[[lower]]$lower:: The lowest accepted number of a range.
[[mapKey]]$mapKey:: Map key.
[[mapKeyList]]$mapKeyList:: A list of map keys, for example, `first and second` in the map `{first: 1, second: 2}`.
[[matchMode]]$matchMode:: GPM match mode, for example, `REPEATABLE ELEMENTS`.
[[msg]]$msg:: Freeform message.
[[msgTitle]]$msgTitle:: Freeform message title.
//Change $msgTitle to $excClass
[[namespaceList]]$namespaceList:: A list of namespaces of procedures, for example, `apoc.math.`.
[[operation]]$operation:: A mathematical operation, for example, `/ by zero`, `>`.
//Change 51N69 to something else.
[[option]]$option:: Option name
//This needs further investigation.
[[optionList]]$optionList:: A list of option names.
//This needs further investigation.
[[param]]$param:: Parameter name, for example, `$pattern`.
[[paramList]]$paramList:: A list of parameters, for example `$pattern, $prop`.
[[pat]]$pat:: Pattern, for example, `(:Person)`.
[[pathMode]]$pathMode:: GPM path mode, for example, `ACYCLIC`.
[[pathModeList]]$pathModeList:: A list of GPM path modes, for example, `TRAIL, ACYCLIC`.
[[port]]$port:: Port name, for example, `6362`.
[[portList]]$portList:: A list of port names, for example, `6362, 6000, 7000`.
[[pos]]$pos:: A position, for example, in a sequence, for example, `2`
[[pred]]$pred:: A predicate, for example, `x = 3`.
[[predList]]$predList:: A list of predicates, for example, `'x = 3', 'y > 4'`.
[[preparserInput]]$preparserInput:: Piece of preparser input.
//Change in the code to $input and update the notifications.
[[proc]]$proc:: Procedure name, for example, `db.labels()`.
[[procClass]]$procClass:: User-defined procedure implementation class name, for example, `MyProcedureClass`.
[[procExeMode]]$procExeMode:: Procedure execution mode, one of `READ`, `WRITE`, `SCHEMA`, and `DBMS`.
[[procField]]$procField:: User-defined procedure implementation class argument name, for example, `myArgument`.
//Change $proField to $arg
[[procFieldType]]$procFieldType:: User-defined procedure implementation class argument type, one of `input` or `output`.
//Change $procFieldType to $argType
[[procFun]]$procFun:: Procedure or function name or ID, for example, `db.labels()` or `collect()`.
[[procMethod]]$procMethod:: User-defined procedure implementation class method name, for example, `myProcedureMethod`
[[procParam]]$procParam:: User-defined procedure implementation parameter name.
[[procParamFmt]]$procParamFmt:: Freeform user-defined procedure implementation parameter format, for example, `com.example.*`.
[[propKey]]$propKey:: Property key name, for example, `name`.
[[propKeyList]]$propKeyList:: A list of property key names, for example, `name, age, hometown`.
[[query]]$query:: A statement that retrieves or writes information to a database, for example, `MATCH (n) WHERE n.prop`.
[[reasonList]]$reasonList:: A list of reasons of the failure.
[[relType]]$relType:: Relationship type name, for example, `KNOWS`.
[[replacement]]$replacement:: A free-form text, a replacement of a deprecated feature, a Cypher command, etc.
[[role]]$role:: RBAC role name, for example, `admin`, `public`, `receptionist`.
[[routingPolicy]]$routingPolicy:: Routing policy name.
[[runtime]]$runtime:: Cypher runtime name. One of `slotted`, `pipelined`, and `parallel`.
[[schemaDescr]]$schemaDescr:: Schema descriptor, for example, `(:Label1 \{prop1})`.
[[schemaDescrType]]$schemaDescrType:: Freeform type of schema descriptor, for example, `label property existence constraint`.
[[selector]]$selector:: GPM path selector, for example, `ALL PATHS`, `SHORTEST 2`, etc.
[[selectorType]]$selectorType:: Selector type.
//Ask Lasse about $selectorType (releated to CDC) and has nothing to do with $selector.
[[server]]$server:: Server name or ID, for example, `25a7efc7-d063-44b8-bdee-f23357f89f01`.
[[serverList]]$serverList:: A list of server names or IDs, for example, `'server-1', 'server-2'`.
[[serverType]]$serverType:: Server type, `PRIMARY` (primaryConstrained), `SECONDARY` (secondaryConstrained), or `NONE`.
[[serverAddress]]$serverAddress:: Server address, for example, `localhost:20025`.
[[sig]]$sig:: Procedure or function signature, for example, `date(input = DEFAULT_TEMPORAL_ARGUMENT :: ANY) :: DATE`
[[storeFormat]]$storeFormat:: Store format name. One of "aligned", "block", "standard", "high_limit".
[[syntax]]$syntax:: Cypher syntax or keyword.
[[temporal]]$temporal:: Temporal value, for example, `2025-02-18`.
[[timeAmount]]$timeAmount:: Integral amount of time unit (a number).
[[timeUnit]]$timeUnit:: Common time unit name, for example, `seconds`, `minutes`, `hours`.
[[token]]$token:: Token name, for example, `MyLabel`, `MyRelationshipType`, `myPropertyKey`.
[[tokenId]]$tokenId:: Token ID.
[[tokenType]]$tokenType:: One of a label, a relationship type, or a property key.
[[transactionId]]$transactionId:: The transaction ID of a running query.
[[typeDescription]]$typeDescription:: Freeform description of a type e.g. 'a list'.
[[upper]]$upper:: The highest accepted number of a range.
[[url]]$url:: A URL, for example, https://example.com.
[[user]]$user:: A user name, for example, `neo4j`.
[[value]]$value:: Some value.
[[valueList]]$valueList:: A list of values.
[[valueType]]$valueType:: Cypher value type, for example, `STRING`, `BOOLEAN`, `INTEGER`, `LIST<STRING>`, etc.
[[valueTypeList]]$valueTypeList:: A list of Cypher value types.
[[variable]]$variable:: Variable name, for example, `n`.
[[variableList]]$variableList:: A list of variable names, for example, `a, b, c`.
